---
short_title: GWLB Firewall Option
type: example
show_in_hub: false
---
# VM-Series Azure Gateway Load Balancer example

The exmaple allows to deploy VM-Series firewalls for inbound and outbound traffic inspection utilizing
Azure Gateway Load Balancer in service chain model as described in the following
[document](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/vm-series/10-2/vm-series-deployment/set-up-the-vm-series-firewall-on-azure/deploy-the-vm-series-firewall-with-the-azure-gwlb).

## Topology

This reference architecture consists of:

- a VNET containing:
  - 2 subnets dedicated to the firewalls: management and data
  - Route Tables and Network Security Groups
- 1 Gateway Load Balancer:
  - bound to Standard Load Balancers in front of application VMs, tunneling all traffic through VM-Series in its backend
- 2 firewalls:
  - deployed in different zones
  - with 3 network interfaces: management, data
  - with public IP addresses assigned to management interface
- _(optional)_ test workloads with accompanying infrastructure:
  - 2 Spoke VNETs with Route Tables and Network Security Groups
  - 2 Public Standard Load Balancers, in front of the Spoke VMs
  - 2 Spoke VMs serving as WordPress-based web servers
  - 2 Azure Bastion managed jump hosts 

**NOTE!**
- In order to deploy the architecture without test workloads described above, empty the `test_infrastructure` map in
  `example.tfvars` file.

## Prerequisites

A list of requirements might vary depending on the platform used to deploy the infrastructure but a minimum one includes:

- _(in case of non cloud shell deployment)_ credentials and (optionally) tools required to authenticate against Azure Cloud,
  see [AzureRM provider documentation for details](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs#authenticating-to-azure)
- [supported](#requirements) version of [`Terraform`](<https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/downloads>)
- if you have not run Palo Alto NGFW images in a subscription it might be necessary to accept the license first
  ([see this note](../../modules/vmseries/README.md#accept-azure-marketplace-terms)).

**NOTE!**
- after the deployment the firewalls remain not configured and not licensed
- this example contains some **files** that **can contain sensitive data**, namely the `TFVARS` file can contain
  `bootstrap_options` properties in `var.vmseries` definition. Keep in mind that **this code** is **only an example**.
  It's main purpose is to introduce the Terraform modules.

## Usage

### Deployment Steps

* Checkout the code locally.
* Copy `example.tfvars` to `terraform.tfvars` and adjust it to your needs.
* Copy `files/init-cfg.txt.sample` to `files/init-cfg.txt` and fill it in with required bootstrap parameters (see this
[documentation](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/vm-series/10-2/vm-series-deployment/bootstrap-the-vm-series-firewall/create-the-init-cfgtxt-file/init-cfgtxt-file-components)
for details).
* _(optional)_ Authenticate to AzureRM, switch to the Subscription of your choice if necessary.
* Initialize the Terraform module:

```bash
terraform init
```

* _(optional)_ Plan you infrastructure to see what will be actually deployed:

```bash
terraform plan
```

* Deploy the infrastructure:

```bash
terraform apply
```

* At this stage you have to wait a few minutes for the firewalls to bootstrap.

### Post deploy

Firewalls in this example are configured with password authentication. To retrieve the initial credentials run:

* for username:

```bash
terraform output username
```

* for password:

```bash
terraform output password
```

The management public IP addresses are available in the `vmseries_mgmt_ips` output:

```bash
terraform output vmseries_mgmt_ips
```

You can now login to the devices using either:

* CLI - ssh client is required
* Web UI (https) - any modern web browser, note that initially the traffic is encrypted with a self-signed certificate.

With default example configuration, the devices already contain `DAY0` configuration, so all network interfaces should be
configured and Azure Gateway Load Balancer should already report that the devices are healthy.

You can now proceed with licensing the devices and configuring your first rules.

Please also refer to [this repository](https://github.com/PaloAltoNetworks/iron-skillet) for
`DAY1` configuration (security hardening).

### Cleanup

To remove the deployed infrastructure run:

```bash
terraform destroy
```