---
short_title: Common CloudNGFW
type: refarch
show_in_hub: false
swfw: cloudngfw
---
# Reference Architecture with Terraform: CNGFW in Azure, Virtual Network Design Model.

Palo Alto Networks produces several [validated reference architecture design and deployment documentation guides](https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/resources/reference-architectures),which describe well-architected and tested deployments. 
When deploying CNGFWs in a public cloud, the reference architecturesguide users toward the best security outcomes, 
whilst reducing rollout time and avoiding common integration efforts.

The Terraform code presented here will deploy Palo Alto Networks Cloud NGFW firewall in Azure based on a centralized virtual network design model with common CNGFW for all traffic; for a discussion of other options, please see the design guide from
[the reference architecture guides](https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/resources/reference-architectures).

## Detailed Architecture and Design

### Centralized Virtual Network Design

This code implements:

- a *centralized virtual network design*, a hub-and-spoke topology with a Transit VNet containing CNGFW to inspect all inbound, outbound,
  east-west, and enterprise traffic

This design uses a Transit VNet. Application functions and resources are deployed across multiple VNets that are connected in
a hub-and-spoke topology. The hub of the topology, or transit VNet, is the central point of connectivity for all inbound,
outbound, east-west, and enterprise traffic. You integrate CNGFW with the transit VNet. Please see the [CNGFW design guide](https://www.paloaltonetworks.com/apps/pan/public/downloadResource?pagePath=/content/pan/en_US/resources/guides/securing-apps-with-cloud-ngfw-for-azure-design-guide).

This reference architecture consists of:

- a VNET containing:
  - 2 subnets dedicated to the CNGFW: private and public
  - Route Tables and Network Security Groups
- 1 CNGFW:
  - with 2 network interfaces: public, private
  - with 2 public IP addresses assigned to public interface
  - Destination Network Address Translation rules
- _(optional)_ test workloads with accompanying infrastructure:
  - 2 Spoke VNETs with Route Tables and Network Security Groups
  - 2 Spoke VMs serving as WordPress-based web servers
  - 2 Azure Bastion managed jump hosts 

**NOTE!**
- In order to deploy the architecture without test workloads described above, empty the `test_infrastructure` map in
  `example.tfvars` file.

## Prerequisites

A list of requirements might vary depending on the platform used to deploy the infrastructure but a minimum one includes:

- _(in case of non cloud shell deployment)_ credentials and (optionally) tools required to authenticate against Azure Cloud,
  see [AzureRM provider documentation for details](https://registry.terraform.io/providers/hashicorp/azurerm/latest/docs#authenticating-to-azure)
- [supported](#requirements) version of [`Terraform`](<https://developer.hashicorp.com/terraform/downloads>)

**NOTE!**
- after the deployment the firewalls remain not configured and not licensed
- to manage CNGFW via Panorama, an existing Panorama instance is required. Please see the [Panorama integration guide](https://docs.paloaltonetworks.com/cloud-ngfw/azure/cloud-ngfw-for-azure/panorama-policy-management/panorama-integration-overview).


## Usage

### Deployment Steps

- checkout the code locally (if you haven't done so yet)
- copy the [`example.tfvars`](./example.tfvars) file, rename it to `terraform.tfvars` and adjust it to your needs
  (take a closer look at the `TODO` markers)
- _(optional)_ authenticate to AzureRM, switch to the Subscription of your choice
- provide `subscription_id` either by creating an environment variable named `ARM_SUBSCRIPTION_ID` with Subscription ID as value
  in your shell (recommended option) or by setting the value of `subscription_id` variable within your `tfvars` file (discouraged
  option, we don't recommend putting the Subscription ID in clear text inside the code).
- initialize the Terraform module:

  ```bash
  terraform init
  ```

- _(optional)_ plan you infrastructure to see what will be actually deployed:

  ```bash
  terraform plan
  ```

- deploy the infrastructure (you will have to confirm it with typing in `yes`):

  ```bash
  terraform apply
  ```

  The deployment takes couple of minutes.

### Post deploy

Firewall in this example is configured for management via Panorama.
To manage the firewall, all configurations are handled through the Panorama instance.


### Cleanup

To remove the deployed infrastructure run:

```sh
terraform destroy
```
